Welcome, guys and gals, to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to learn about a very important Kubernetes object called Pods.
They are like the atom of Kubernetes.
They are like the heart of atom, man that keeps things running.
All right, let's jump into it.
So let's look at the big picture first.
Right.
So the ultimate goal for you is to run your application in a container.
So basically you have your app, then you tokenize your app, create a Docker image, then you save
that image into a repository such as Docker hub or elastic container registry.
Then you want to deploy your application running as a container.
But we cannot deploy our containers directly into our Kubernetes cluster.
Containers are encapsulated in a Kubernetes object called the pod.
Pods are the smallest deployable units of computing that can be created and managed in Kubernetes.
And you can deploy your container within a pod, and this pod runs within the node.
And the nodes are the easy to workers working as the data plane of Kubernetes.
When I started learning Kubernetes, I always used to get confused.
What's running inside?
What?
The way I remember it is I remember this term NPC, you know, those non playable characters in those
RPG games that just stand around and give you a bunch of stuff to do.
So NPC.
So basically Node is the higher level within node runs pod and within pod runs container.
So let's say we have a node running and within this node we have a pod running.
Now each pod will have a unique IP address and other pods within the same Kubernetes cluster can talk
to this pod using this IP address.
Now, let's say within this pod we have a application container running and maybe your application is
written in Java.
So generally in one part you only run one application container.
Don't get confused though.
In one part you can run more than one container.
However, generally you run one copy of application container in one pod.
Why is that?
Because we have this pod with the IP address and let's say you have another container called a helper
container or a sidecar container, which is doing some specific tasks, let's say traffic monitoring,
circuit breaking or something like that.
And we're going to take a deeper look at the sidecar containers at a later lecture.
But since all these containers are within this port and this port has one IP address, your app container
has to expose itself using a particular port, let's say port 80.
And the sidecar container cannot expose itself using the same port.
Right.
So let's say the sidecar container is exposing itself by port 2025.
So if from outside someone wants to access your application container, they will use this IP address
and then the port 80 and it will reach this application container.
So if you have to deploy another application container in the same port, you cannot really expose it
using port 80, right?
Because then there is a conflict and you don't want to expose your same application using different
ports.
So in general, you will only deploy one application container in one pot.
And let's for now, let's say there is no sidecar container running.
Let's remove all the port stuff for now.
So how are you going to scale, let's say the traffic increases and you want to scale.
So when you have to scale, you never spin up more than one application container in one pot.
You spin up another pot with another application container.
And I'm kind of showing that this part has a different IP address as well.
So we are going to look at scaling in detail in a future lecture.
But remember this basic theory that you deploy one application container in one pot, and when you have
to scale your application, you spin up more parts in the same node.
And then when this node is full, then you spin up additional nodes with additional pods running your
application container.
So generally how it looks is let's say you running a web server and then maybe you are using Enjin X
as your container image.
So you deploy engine X container image in a pod.
So you have two pods running in the same node and each of these pod has different IP address and this
node also has a IP address.
And then this node is basically an Amazon issue.
If you have like a multi tier application, let's say you have a web server here where you are running
engine X and then you have a database here running Redis.
So they will be running inside a pod and this web server here will be talking to this data.
Here just for the diagram I showed the database pods and the web server pods running in separate nodes.
But in reality, all these pods can mix and match and run in same easy nodes.
If you have questions about how does this actual communication happens, how does it load balance,
how does it scale?
We are going to know all about it in later lectures.
All right, guys and girls, now that we understand theoretically, what is a pod?
Let's look at a pod using a manifest file and a demo.
All right, guys and girls join me in the next lecture.